yeah we have a plane flying over right
now but I apologize for that too this is
our game trail now I made this this is a
perfect example of what one would look
like it'll look highly used the the dirt
and debris will be moved out of the way
so it would make essentially an animal
highway here you can see that it goes
all the way through and I have a perfect
spot to make like a bottleneck to force
the little guy into a Conibear now I
didn't want to actually disturb a real
game trail these animals in the desert
use that so they can get back and forth
from food sources water sources and
things like that so with that being said
I wanted to mock one and set one up to
explain and show you without disturbing
the natural habitat and causing the
animals to go somewhere else that's
their home I don't want to disturb it
okay now kana bear traps are kill traps
these are more humane than the old
foothold traps that would just hold the
animal there and you have to show up and
dispatch it this is a kill trap when you
come back you find an animal in here
it's dead
with that being said just be mindful as
to where you put these don't put them on
public land as a matter of fact in
Arizona in public land it's extremely
illegal to use these places where people
will be walking their dogs or maybe have
their cats out with them be mindful of
that I like to try to avoid as much
unintentional kills in these traps as
possible now to set this it's fairly
straightforward and simple
you have your spring which the Conibear
110 has 110 pounds per square inch of
pressure when it closes
basically just squeeze your your spring
that's gonna bring your your trigger and
your lock together just lay it across
just like so and make sure it catches
now what I'll do is I'll hold on to the
spring just like so when I let go to
make sure that it's not going to snap me
now larger ones are gonna have two of
these and you need tools to be able to
set them and they have safety locks to
keep them from shutting on your hand one
of these shuts on your hand you're gonna
be in a world of hurt now what I've done
I've taken my chain and I've staked it
here and this is in really deep this is
a pretty long stick the reason you want
this in deep to hold that in place is
just in case something else comes along
and grabs the critter that's in the in
the trap he can't run off with it this
one this one and this one are here to
help stabilize the trap and hold it in
place so that when the critter goes
through he doesn't knock it over and
it'll effectively shut and kill it you
can also see that it's still open here
here and as well as here so what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna fence this in
now if you want to you can actually add
a funnel or a bottleneck that comes out
this way and this way as well but it's
not entirely necessary so basically
what's gonna happen is when he comes
through either way he's gonna see all
this debris in the way and it's gonna
discourage him from going around your
top barriers gonna discourage him from
going over because basically animals are
gonna use the easiest possible way
they're just like us now when he comes
through he's gonna hit the trigger then
he's caught and it doesn't matter if
this stuff starts to fall over at that
point because he's done man there is
some pressure on those jobs
okay now these are my traps I have ten
of them and I'm actually going to be
dipping these in either speed dip or
Full Metal Jacket the reason being is
these will begin to rust as a matter of
fact they come heavily oiled and you'll
have to clean them off when you get them
I keep them in my Condor to bag because
I've devoted my Condor to bag strictly
for my trapping back now the more you
carry the more likely you are going to
be able to get food the more likely that
the traps are going to work these are
extremely effective also understand you
can see the kind of bulk that these have
and I don't suggest carrying that many
in a survival kit trapping in itself is
a full-time job and in previous videos
you've probably heard me mention that at
any given time you should have thirty to
fifty traps out not necessarily for a
survival situation but if you're living
off the land the more traps you have the
more likely that you're going to be able
to get some food I wanted to let you
know that I have been invited to write
articles for equip to endure I'm very
happy to have accepted this invitation
and the staff had equipped to endure is
extremely knowledgeable they know their
stuff and they're a great bunch of guys
to work with I look forward to being
able to post more and more articles for
them
that being said I'm John Campbell from
Arizona Bushman comm and high desert
survival school comm see you soon